# ssd-multibox-detector
Custom Implementation of Single Shot Multi Box Detector

We implemented a  method for effectively detecting as well  as localizing objects in images  using the approach,named  Single-Shot  Detector.  This  method  used  a  set  of  scalable  boxes  obtained  from  discretized  output  space  ofbounding boxes. Then, a feed-forward convolutional network uses the scalable boxes to check the presence of eachcategory  and  give  a  confidence  score.  The  network  also  performs  a  bounding  box  adjustment  to  produce  a  bettermatching  box  for  the  object  shape.  The  base  of  the  network  is  designated  for  high  quality  image  classification.In  addition,  the  auxiliary  structure  to  the  network  is  used  to  produce  detections  with  the  key  features  such  as  theMulti-scale feature maps for detection, the Convolutional predictors for detection, and the Default boxes and aspectratios. SSD is straightforward to train, and it can easily be integrated to any applications. The main reason for thisis  the  fact  that,  unlike  other  methods,  the  SSD  approach  encapsulates  all  computation  in  a  single  network  since  itdoes not use proposal generation and subsequent pixel or feature resampling stages. Using the RESNET network, weimplemented  the  SSD  approach  and  obtained  experimental  results  on  the  Dataset  COCO2014  (  82,000  Images;  82Classes).  We  chose  to  use  Resnet  18  becuase  it  maintiains  the  residuals  from  previous  layers  in  the  network.  Thisallows high level layers to directly access information from low levels. We premised this should lead to better resultsthan VGG.Following our experiments on 26 Epochs and close to 50 hours of training, we concluded that SSD has asignificant result in localization accuracy and a reasonable accuracy on detection
